Grant application - High-availability validator setup (#1203)
w3f/Grants-Program: applications/High_availability_validator_setup.md

* **Estimated Duration:** 4 weeks
* **FTE:** 1
* **Costs:** 12,500 DAI

| Number | Deliverable | Specification |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | 
| **0a.** | License | Apache 2.0 / GPLv3 / MIT / Unlicense |
| **0b.** | Documentation | We will provide inline documentation.|
| **0c.** | Testing and Testing Guide | We will provide unit tests and the guidelines for running and testing it the scope. |
| **0d.** | Docker | We will provide a Dockerfile(s) that can be used to test all the functionality delivered with this milestone. |
| 1. | Update substrate | Modify the substrate code to conditionally submit blocks/votes for finalised blocks (GRANDPA)/`I'm online` messages. |
| 2. | Update substrate client - cli | Modify the substrate code to conditionally grant or permit permissions. There will be option to run node in permission granted or permission denied mode). It will be useful to prove that permissioning works by running two nodes with same auth keys but different modes (permission granted/denied) |
| 3. | Integration test | A dockerised setup that allows to run network in setup described above. |

### Milestone 2 - External service for permission granting

> Sendecond milestone introduces a microservice which will test dynamic switching of the permission granting, during the validators work. We will be able to test permission granting triggered whenever the block is produced, vote is made on the finalized block (GRANDPA) and message (`I'm online`) is sent for communicating liveness. Only the leader validator will be granted to run those actions. At worst the author may miss a slot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second milestone introduces a microservice which will test dynamic switching of the permission granting, during the validator's work. We will be able to test permission granting triggered whenever the block is produced, the vote is made on the finalized block (GRANDPA) and a message (`I'm online`) is sent for communicating liveness. Only the leader validator will be granted to run those actions. At worst, the author may miss a slot.
```

The service should contain only basic logic (e.g. return `true` for node that asked first and `false` for following ones).

* **Estimated Duration:** 3 weeks
* **FTE:** 1
* **Costs:** 7,500 DAI

| Number | Deliverable | Specification | 
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| **0a.** | License | Apache 2.0 / GPLv3 / MIT / Unlicense |
| **0b.** | Documentation | We will provide inline documentation.|
| **0c.** | Testing and Testing Guide | We will provide unit tests and the guidelines for running and testing it the scope. |
| **0d.** | Docker | We will provide a Dockerfile(s) that can be used to test all the functionality delivered with this milestone. |

> | 1. | Basic service | Create a microservice that accepts connections from the node. | 

Reviewer 2: Yes, we are going to use a Rust.

| 2. | Getting permission from microservice | Setup custom node repository and write PermissionResolver trait implementation for getting permission from microservice. |
| 3. | Allow as optional | The choice of using an outside decision making agent for block submission should be configurable in the cli. |
| 4. | Cleanup substrate code | Remove deprecated cli options.
| 5. | Integration test | A dockerised setup that allows to run custom nodes network and microservice in order to show that created solution works. |

### Milestone 3 - Raft based current leader selection

> Replace the dummy microservice as an infrastructure component with a TiKV cluster used for leader selection. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace the dummy microservice as an infrastructure component with a [TiKV](https://github.com/tikv/tikv) cluster used for leader selection. 
```

> Each node should try to get authorship premission based on the KV state. Replace current microservice client with TiKV client and add corresponding logic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each node should try to get authorship permission based on the KV (Key-value) state. Replace the current microservice client with a TiKV client and add corresponding logic.
```

* **Estimated Duration:** 2 weeks
* **FTE:** 1
* **Costs:** 5,000 DAI 

| Number | Deliverable | Specification | 
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| **0a.** | License | Apache 2.0 / GPLv3 / MIT / Unlicense |
| **0b.** | Documentation | We will provide inline documentation.|
| **0c.** | Testing and Testing Guide | We will provide unit tests and the guidelines for running and testing it the scope. |
| **0d.** | Docker | We will provide a Dockerfile(s) that can be used to test all the functionality delivered with this milestone. |

> | 1. | Run the necessary Raft services | Setup local dev infrastructure to run TiKV components in order to provide distributed KV store. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 1. | Run the necessary Raft services | Set up a local dev infrastructure to run TiKV components in order to provide a distributed KV store. |
```

> | 2. | Integrate a Raft client into the node | Replace previous logic with TiKV based one and modify configs to allow TiKV client to connect to Placement Drivers. | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 2. | Integrate a Raft client into the node | Replace the previous logic with a TiKV based one and modify configs to allow the TiKV client to connect to Placement Drivers. | 
```

Reviewer: > Placement Drivers

What's that?

Reviewer 2: Placement Drivers (PD) is one of the components which stores metadata for the entire TiKV cluster. It is responsible for sending commands to the TiKV nodes. The minimum setup for PD is to manage three TiKV nodes.

Reviewer: @mgralinski-bright could you incorporate this into the doc? other than that I'm willing to approve it as well.

> | 2. | Integrate a Raft client into the node | Replace the previous logic with a TiKV based one and modify configs to allow the TiKV client to connect to Placement Drivers. | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 2. | Integrate a Raft client into the node | Replace the previous logic with a TiKV based one and modify configs to allow the TiKV client to connect to Placement Drivers. Placement Drivers (PD) is one of the components which stores metadata for the entire TiKV cluster. It is responsible for sending commands to the TiKV nodes. The minimum setup for PD is to manage three TiKV nodes. | 
```
